.\"
.\" This manpage is written by Thomas Schultz
.\"
.TH slrnpull 1 "September 2004" Unix "User Manuals"
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
slrnpull \- Pull a small newsfeed for offline reading.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slrnpull
.RI "[\-d\ " spooldir ]
.RI "[\-h\ " server ]
.RI "[\-\-debug\ " file ]
[\-\-expire]
.RI "[\-\-fetch\-score " n ]
[\-\-help]
.RI "[\-\-kill\-log\ " file ]
.RI "[\-\-kill\-score " n ]
.RI "[\-\-logfile\ " file ]
[\-\-marked\-bodies]
[\-\-new\-groups]
[\-\-no\-post]
[\-\-post]
[\-\-post\-only]
[\-\-rebuild]
[\-\-version]

.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I slrnpull
pulls a small newsfeed from an NNTP server.  It puts the articles into a
spool directory from which
.I slrn
can later read them, even if the server is unreachable at that time.
Typically, this is useful if you do not have a permanent network connection.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options can be used when calling
.I slrnpull
from the command line.
.IP "\-d \fIspooldir\fP"
Set slrnpull's root directory for this run to
.IR spooldir ,
overriding the
.I $SLRNPULL_ROOT
environment variable.
.IP "\-h \fIhost[:port]\fP"
Connect to the NNTP server on
.IR host ,
overriding the
.I $NNTPSERVER
environment variable.  If no
.I port
is given, the default NNTP port (119) will be used.
.IP "\-\-debug \fIfile\fP"
Write dialogue with the server and some additional debugging output to
.IR file .
.IP "\-\-expire"
Expire (remove) old messages from the spool, but do not fetch news.
.IP "\-\-fetch\-score \fIn\fP"
Fetch article bodies with a score of at least
.IR n
automatically (in true offline mode, the default is to fetch only bodies that
were explicitly marked by the user).
.IP "\-\-help"
Show help for command line switches.
.IP "\-\-kill\-log \fIfile\fP"
Keep a log of all articles that were killed by the scorefile in
.IR file .
By default, no such logfile is created.
.IP "\-\-kill\-score \fIn\fP"
Kill all articles with a score below
.IR n .
The default value for this is 0.
.IP "\-\-logfile \fIfile\fP"
Log the messages and errors that slrnpull prints to the screen to
.IR file .
By default, they get written to the file log in slrnpull's root directory.
.IP "\-\-marked\-bodies"
Only fetch bodies that were marked for download within slrn.
.IP "\-\-new\-groups"
Check for new groups, appending them to the file new.groups in the data
directory.
.IP "\-\-no\-post"
Do not post any articles to the server.
.IP "\-\-post"
Obsolete version of
.IR \-\-post\-only .
.IP "\-\-post\-only"
Post outgoing articles, but do not fetch news.
.IP "\-\-rebuild"
Like \-\-expire, but also rebuild the overview information.
To be used when the overview information is damaged.
.IP "\-\-version"
Print the version number.

.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I slrnpull
reads the following environment variables.  Note that they can be overridden
by command line switches.
.TP
.B NNTPSERVER
You can use this variable to tell
.I slrnpull
which NNTP server to connect to.  It can be overridden by the command line
option \-h.
.TP
.B SLRNPULL_ROOT
Defines the directory where
.I slrnpull
will look for its configuration files and spool the articles.  An absolute
filename is needed here.  This can be overriden by the option \-d.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
$SLRNPULL_ROOT/authinfo
If the server requires authentication, this file needs to contain the data
(username in the first line, password in the second).  Be careful not to
make this file world-readable!
.TP
$SLRNPULL_ROOT/log
The default file to log status and error messages to.
.TP
$SLRNPULL_ROOT/score
If you want
.I slrnpull
to apply scoring rules to decide which articles to download, put them into
this file.
.TP
$SLRNPULL_ROOT/slrnpull.conf
The main configuration file.  It tells
.I slrnpull
how many articles to get from which groups and when to expire them.

.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
The documentation that comes with
.IR slrnpull ,
especially README and SETUP. The FAQ of slrn also answers some questions
about slrnpull.

You might also want to look at slrn's official home page,
.I http://slrn.sourceforge.net/
or post to
.I news.software.readers
if you have a question not covered by existing documentation.

The latest version of
.I slrnpull
is part of the slrn package available from
.I http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/slrn/
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John E. Davis <davis@space.mit.edu>

Please send any bug reports to the current maintainer,
Thomas Schultz <tststs@gmx.de>
